Week 5 of the system design interview preparation and today I do have a task to design the Dropbox system. So Dropbox, let me open my Excalidraw so I will use this magnificent tool for my system design interview preparation. Okay, so the Dropbox. So what I need to do, like the Dropbox is a cloud-based file storage service that allows users to store and share files. So it provides a secure and reliable way to store and access files from anywhere on any device. Okay, that makes sense for me. So yeah, let me again summarize. So it is like cloud-based file storage. Okay, so storing the files. So the users, they use these files storage like in the way how they are like storing the files in this cloud they can share these files with other users. Okay, so this storage should be secure storage, it should be reliable, and so these files they should be accessible from anywhere and from any devices. So this means that like the files they can be like accessible from any device like from mobile, from my desktop, like from my friend's desktop, etc. Okay, so makes sense.

So what I want to start with, so I want to start with the requirements. So I will start with requirements, then I will go to estimations, to API design, then we'll talk a little bit about the data model, then we'll have this high-level design. Then just choose some part of the system, make the deep dive, and then we talk a little bit about the scaling.

Yeah, but first of all, I want to start with the requirements. So requirements, they are like functional and non-functional requirements. Like let's start with the functional requirements. There's a functional requirement. So like I need or user need to be able to upload file to our system. The user needs to be able to download file from the system. So if the files they need to be like accessible from any devices, this means that like user need to be able to synchronize like files across the devices and maybe not the user but system need to synchronize. So when I am like from my laptop, like working laptop, like uploading the file to the Dropbox, like my colleague, like on other end, should be able to see this file on its, like on this like shared folder on its, his laptop. So it's kind of automatically sync files across devices. Yeah, and as it was mentioned at the beginning, so files need to be shareable, yeah, through the, actually, they can be shareable through the devices. So we can like, we can keep it as it is.

All right, so next is the non-functional requirements. So as a non-functional requirements, availability is more prioritized compared to consistency. Availability over consistency. This means that our files, to build this system, must be available. So they shouldn't disappear. They should be always available. We shouldn't lose these files. But if I will upload this file and this file will not be immediately appeared for other user on the other end of the world, this is probably OK. So if to have some latency and the user will see this file maybe in a couple of minutes or something like this. So for such a system as Dropbox, this should be pretty much like okay. So you probably need to have the low latency uploading and downloading files as low as possible. So this will actually define the solution usability. We can put here like the system should support big files. Like currently, per my knowledge, it's kind of like for popular systems, it's like less than 50 gigabytes. It's probably like when we were working with such big files, like usually the system, they allow to make disposable or resumable uploads. So when users start uploading the file, then if connection is lost, it shouldn't start from the beginning. It should just proceed uploading from the point when it stopped, when, for example, internet connection will appear again. Or else we can define for our system. So the data integrity. So the synchronization should be accurate.

Okay, this is our functional, non-functional requirements, probably I will put something like out of scope. Let's put out of scope the authorization for this solution. And yeah, all right.

So the next, I want to talk a little bit, is the estimations. And like as in estimations, I need some numbers to make these estimations. Yeah, for estimations like, let's assume that we like have like 10 million of the active users. Let's assume that we have like each user stores, actively stores like, so they actively use it. So let's assume that like 80% of users, they are like reading and like 20% of users, they are like 80% of users downloading and 20% of users like uploading. Okay, so in this case, it's we have like 10 million of daily active users, like 80% downloading, 20% users uploading. So we can estimate what is the storage. And let's assume that these 20% of users, they are uploading in extreme these files with the size of 50 gigabytes. So what this means? So this means like two million of users. So they are storing, it's like 10 billion. 20 million, 20% of 10 million, this will be 2 million users, they are like seeing, yeah each day one user saves like let's see like five files uploading today. So we need to define like how long we need to keep the files. So let's like let's keep the files like during the three years. Data retention for our system. So, yeah, let's define like for three years, so the two million of users, so they can upload like five files a day. Each file, like in extreme 50 gigabytes. And we have like three years that is multiplied by 365 days. So at the end, let's calculate what do we have, what does the number have? It actually looks like a really big number. So like 10, no, let's start like three years by 365 days. Like per day, single user is uploading like five files by 50 gigabytes. Okay, and we are at the final 20... millions, two millions? Yeah, it's like 20 millions. No, two millions, yeah, two millions. It's actually really, really big number. So we do have like, it's probably, yeah, let's, so it's kind of like five. Yeah, it's terabytes, petabytes, it's kind of five million petabytes. It's an impressive number.

And like, I suppose I just put like the wrong number, like for the file size. That is user uploading, like let's assume that it is like not five 50 gigabytes for each file, and user is not uploading like five files with five gigabytes, let's assume that the user is, like the regular user will probably store the files with the really lower size. Like, and let's take just kind of put here some coefficient that will reduce the storage. Like, yeah, let's assume that it is kind of 10% of the, like not 50 megabytes, let's assume that like it will be, like 50 megabytes, like it will be like 1000 times less. Still we're getting the big number. We are getting like five, only, it's around like 500 petabytes for three years. So we can probably reduce these, like the data retention for one year. So this then will be roughly like 200 petabytes, but still, that is actually pretty much impressive number for me. Again, for interviews, probably interviewer will give me more reasonable numbers. Right now I got these numbers, just took them from my head.

All right, that's kind of like big storage. Yeah, the next one I want to talk a little bit is the core entities. So to proceed with the API design, I do need to understand these core entities, like just to be able to figure out what API I need to propose, like to manipulate with these core entities. So as a core entities, we do have like the file. It's like raw bytes. So the file itself. So we do have like the file metadata. So it is kind of like, who's owning, like what is the type, like when uploaded, like et cetera, et cetera, when synchronized. So we do have like the users as well. So these are our core entities and we can proceed with the API.

So for the API, it's obvious that we need to have some kind of post request when we will upload the files. So when the file uploaded, it should return response 200. So as the body of request it will be like file itself and file metadata that we are uploading. When we upload the file we need like the get request that is reading the file. So it will be file/id of the file. So let's, it should return the file itself and file metadata. All right. So we probably need to have a get request to files, like changes since, it's kind of like timestamp. And it should return the list of file IDs. Okay, so we have API like to upload our file. We have an API to download the file and we have an API to get the files changed like since like some period of time.

All right, so we can proceed with the high level design itself. So as the high level design, like the data model, like, I mean, like, which fields, et cetera, so we'll touch it, like during this high level design, when we talk a little bit about the storage. And we'll wait, so let's start with the high level design, high level blocks.

So we do have kind of client that is using our system. Like the client is, is it like the global system that needs to have like the load balancer? So what does load balancer do? Like this load balancer, like, and actually it's not only a load balancer, like load balancer plus API gateway. It like should be authorization here, like it should be like routing here, like all these things like secured, like it's SSL. So all the things they will be in this block, like we are the load balancer and API gateway. Then like behind these load balancers, we do have the file service. File service. So what these file service will do? So this file service actually will be responsible to store the files in the file storage. So when user will like upload the file, so the request will go to the load balancer API gateway, then like from the API gateway it will be routed to file service and the file service itself will route like the data to the file storage. So it is... The client as well can read the files. So when the client is making requests, so it's not just only like upload, it is like upload file, file metadata. It is reading file metadata as well, and more like having like this file ID inside.

The file storage, all right, so when the user is just uploading, so like this file is going to file service and then like to file storage. The file storage can be like, probably kind of blob storage. So we need to store these raw bytes somewhere. So this can be like, we can use, for example, AWS S3 here for the storing, for the storing the raw bytes. But this storage is actually good to storing the raw data, but this storage is not actually really good to store the metadata. So we need separate storage, let's call it metadata storage. And this can be actually the... This can be kind of like the database that need to store structured data, like the file metadata, like what we have in file metadata. So file metadata we do have like the file ID of course. We have file name, we have... So it's probably a good idea to store, like in this metadata storage, the link to the file itself. So the user can just like, getting the file metadata. So it will like, know how to download the file. And like, yeah, just in a second, we'll talk about how to download the file.

So the downloading file through the same way, through the load balancer file service and blob storage is probably not really efficient, especially like for big files, because like it's, we need to cross multiple boundaries. So in case of the blob storage, we can have probably the presigned URLs. And so having this presigned URL, so, the user can directly upload the files from the blob storage, not like overloading our services inside. And this means that we need to store in the file metadata the file URL. So user can just like file URL, presigned URL as I mentioned, presigned URL, just to take this URL and download it. And probably we will have like other metadata, like not really important at the moment.

So, and yeah, so this looks like we need to have like, as we have like 10 million users and we have like two million users who is like uploading files, like they, like minimum files look like really big storage. So in this case, so we need something that is actually scalable. And this can be, as I like targeted on AWS services, it can be DynamoDB. It's actually a scale really great and we can scale to millions of requests per second. So yeah, it's actually a great service. All right, so and like the file service will put the metadata storage when user is uploading file and we'll read the data when user is actually trying to download this data. So this kind of write/read data.

Alright so we do have like this system when the client is like uploading the file and client is reading the file. Yeah, let's talk a little bit about the... so yeah, let's go back to our functional, non-functional requirements. So these... the files they should be stored like on client side and this means like in the device and like user device and this says that like our client is kind of like a little bit more complex than just like the single rectangular.

So we need to modernize our client. Our client is the local folder and we do have the client application like that is on the client's machine, client's device. So this is our client: contents of the user folder and client application installed there. All right. So what this means? This means that it is... The client application is not just storing their files, it is also like reading these files. And this means we have multiple client applications and they will probably use the internal business logic. We'll synchronize the files across the different devices.

So looks like we are missing kind of synchronization service that will be responsible to like, to actually synchronize everything. So yeah, so the client application will make the request to get the recent changes. It will return, these recent changes, they will be from the return from the sync service. Sync service will get this data from the metadata storage. So, let's get changes. Yeah, this actually can work like directly with the metadata storage and can work through the file service. Maybe actually it's even better. So not to have like the direct links of the responsibility of the file service to manipulate with these storages only, and sync services just work with the file service.

Okay. Yeah, and I actually really forgot like to extend like the file metadata with the user ID. So this like file uploaded by some user owned by this user. It should be of course linked to this user.

Alright, so now let's talk a little bit about the uploading the large files. So one of the requirements is to upload the big files of the size like greater than 50 gigabytes. Yeah, so let's make some calculations. So uploading 50 gigabytes file. So we can take the relative speed is 100 Mbps. So 50 GB / 100 Mbps. This is over one... 400 gigabytes and we can like divide it by... no, we need to multiply by... 4 this will be like megabytes to megabits and then just like divide by hundred megabits per second. It's like roughly four thousand seconds and we are divided by 3600, it's like one hour, like 10 minutes, like an average.

Yes, in this case, we do have the limitation that is, actually we cannot, we shouldn't be like, I don't know, we shouldn't, we, so the average, if we are not like working with the streams, such as all the average, like the HTTP requests of the body sizes, so it's like average limitations, kind of like five megabyte per chunk. So this, per request, sorry, this means that like we need to chunk file on client side by 5 MB, like each chunk. And then just upload this file like in chunks, each chunk should have the chunk hash and the file.

We will store like this chunk into our blob storage and these chunks need to be linked to each other like through the file ID or something like this. Yeah, and reading of the file will be actually the same, so the client application will load the file with the chunks and these chunks, and we'll like combine these chunks already on the client side. So this is the way we will store and read the data from the blob storage.

So like in the file metadata we can add something on top of here, so we can put here like each file will have like the chunks list and like each chunk will have like what it will have: ID, it will have status. It is like already uploaded or still in progress. It will have like S3 link. So this ID is kind of the fingerprint of the chunk.

All right. What else, what we can do? Like, just to... So we can like, like upload the files, we can download the files. So there is like the synchronization files across the devices. We have this synchronized service and there is a logic inside the client application to do everything. So like we can upload the files with the size like up to 50 gigabytes through these chunks.

So we need to work a little bit with the low latency, uploading and downloading the files. Of the low latency downloading of the files. It is like due to the direct presigned URLs on the AWS S3 to download. Yeah, download files with the presigned URL. We probably can like speed up the downloading, uploading as well. So if we will like, we'll allow our application to make the uploading directly to S3. So this will actually significantly speed up file uploading, that is, that is actually will solve our problem with these low latency uploading and downloading.

So we do have like these high data integrity here again like through this sync service. Yeah, the availability of the data is actually due to the fact that we are like storing these data in available services like the AWS S3 or AWS like the...

Let's make some, like, the dive into the client side, the client application. Let's take a look on it a little bit further. So what is the client application? So there is, like, the rich logic inside the client application. So the client application is actually need to be like to, it should like be able to chunk the file. So this client application, it should like chunk the file. So it should like read the file by chunks and read file by chunks. So it's like reading all the chunks, then like combine them, can show like the file to the user. So it like need to detect the local changes and detecting the local changes. It should like upload these changes again. So it can even take a look on the file that was already uploaded. And there are existing chunks. So there is no necessity to upload all the files again, especially the file that is really big. So the client application actually can take a look on the chunks of this file and upload only the parts, only the chunks that are changing.

We do have this fingerprint and client application can have this logic to define the chunks it needs to be updated and we'll upload them into the cloud. So this means that these client applications probably need to have local storage, some kind of local DB to manipulate with all the things to store somewhere. The data just do not like read every time like from our system, from our Dropbox.

What else? What else? So it is uploading, downloading. It is like defining the file changes. So it's just to send the requests or like read for changes. And like on the changes, it just refresh or synchronize and sync the files. All right. So this is our client application having this kind of rich logic.

Okay. So yeah, based on our initial requirements, that's it. So we can spend some time talking a little bit about the load balancer and API gateway component. So it is right now really simple, just single block here and we can actually take a look on it a little bit closer. So what we can do here, so the load balancer API gateway routing, et cetera, so this actually should be like the separate services. So as our applications they are like should be across the world and like different users should be able to work with these files. So this means that like this service is like we need to have like this front load balancer. Right after the load balancer we do have gateway, it's API gateway. Inside this API gateway it can be actually implemented kind of authentication logic and like the request that is coming from the user like it will be checked for for the example for the JWT token or cookies, and just not like to pass this way further like to our server, API server.

That is actually need to be kind of in the store in the different regions, just to minimize the request latency. Okay, so the load balancer, so the client application makes request to, and this request is first like hitting the load balancer, then the load balancer is defined. So it's like we need to have like the many multiple instances supporting or we need to have the global service that is supporting the heavy load from this 10 million of users. And this API gateway is something distributed. So it can be like actually the AWS API Gateway that is pretty much scalable and reliable.

Then this API gateway need to forward the request to the API server that is implementing our endpoints, that is, like, files, changes, et cetera. So this API service, so it's kind of like distributed system, like many, many servers that need to support everything. And then like we do have like these file servers and sync servers that are like, again, like the separate services. Can be like inside our API server, then this will be kind of router, API router block and everything with the API router and file service, sync service, this will be under like this same umbrella and this is our server. This is our server.

So, yeah, this is our API server. Sign it to the read, download, upload, presigned URL, download, upload, presigned URL. Okay, yeah, so in this way we are like supporting all the functional, non-functional requirements, allowing user upload, download, synchronize all the files across the devices. So we have the low latency due to direct access to the storage between the client and from client. We are supporting the big files up to 50 gigabytes. And we have high integrity.
